---
layout: post
title: My Friend Just Got Fired on His Birthday
published: false
---

This week one of my closest friends and roommates turned 24. He planned a humble celebration involving some gifts, some cake, some dinner, and an evening with his girlfriend. It was going to be your typical 20-something's birthday.

I'd spent the afternoon working from home, and was sitting on the couch committing my recent changes as my friend walked in the door. The joy on his face was, as always, infectious. Not only was the "daily grind" over, but he was about to spend the evening revelling in the company of close friends and loved ones. It was hard not to burst into singing "Happy Birthday!" then and there.

My roommate and I in recent weeks have started to form this sort-of habit together. We tend to arrive back from work at about the same time. We'll immediately dispense with the typical pleasantries ("How was your day?" etc. etc.) before diving into some philosophical discussion surrounding whatever Donald Trump said that day. 

A few minutes into our daily debate, my friend's phone began buzzing. He looked at it quizzically for a moment before giving me the signal that he was going to have to take the call. I sat there trying as hard as possible not to eavesdrop. I could only see/hear what my friend was saying, and so contextually I was lost. Based on his reactions, I could tell something was up. I would soon learn that my friend was being told that he no longer had a job.

## Disposable (Human) Resources

My friend (honestly, several of them) fell into a common trap that many recent grads (especially here in Des Moines, where the insurance+finance industry reigns supreme) find themselves stuck in upon graduation. With the dearth of high-paying jobs available for millennials that had the audacity to pursue an education focused on an area of actual interest, rather than market viability, taking up low-paying temp work contracted through agencies provides an opportunity to make slightly-more-than-McDonalds wages until something better comes along. These positions offer no job stability, as they are not considered full-time employees. For the same reason, they offer no means of advancement up-front (the company can choose to hire individuals for whatever reason, but those stories are few and far-between).

My buddy has been working for a _certain_ massive company as a document processor ever since he graduated in December '14. He's held two similar positions within the company, and only recently demanded the staffing agency move him to a second role after suffering intense burnout caused by several consecutive months of massive and compulsory overtime.


